---
layout: post
title: CrypTool - Privacy Policy
description: Cryptography for everyone
---
# Privacy Policy

This declaration is intended to inform the user of this website about the type and purpose of collecting and using personal data.

We use the data you provide to us, such as your name or e-mail address, as well as the usage data collected when using [corona-tracing.cryptool.org](https://corona-tracing.info), solely for the purpose of using and securing the website, processing your enquiry or processing your online access. Your data will not be passed on to third parties. All personal data will only be stored by us for as long as this is necessary for the stated purpose or as long as we are legally obliged to store it. We do not collect personal data from you as far as possible. You can also use this website without entering personal data yourself, i.e. You can visit the freely accessible parts of the website without telling us who you are. In the case of active participation in challenges or feedback, however, an e-mail address is required.

When you visit [corona-tracing.cryptool.org](https://corona-tracing.info), information about your access to [corona-tracing.cryptool.org](https://corona-tracing.info) can be stored on our server. Examples of access data are: date, time, viewed page, name of your internet provider, type of your internet browser, visited pages within our internet presence, your IP address. These data are evaluated by us exclusively for statistical purposes, to improve our offer and for IT security. These data are anonymized and do not belong to the personal data. The according log files are overwritten after 7 days.

You are entitled to free information about your personal data stored by us and, if applicable, have a right to correct, block or delete this data. To do so, please send an email to [ds@cryptool.org](mailto:ds@cryptool.org).

If you have given your consent to the storage and processing of your data (e.g. for the purchase of a free newsletter), you can revoke your consent at any time with effect for the future.

When you visit cryptool.org, data may be stored on your computer. These data in the form of small text files are called "cookies" and make it easier for you to use cryptool.org. Cookies enable us to store the settings you have made (such as the language of the website). Of course, you can deactivate the setting of cookies in your browser at any time for our website or delete them after the end of your session.

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses cookies to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of this website is generally transferred to a Google server in the USA and stored there. However, in the case of the activation of the IP anonymisation on this website, your IP address will be previously abridged by Google within Member States of the European Union or in other Contracting States of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Only in exceptional cases is the full IP address transferred to a Google server in the US and shortened there. On behalf of the operator of this website, Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the web pages, to generate reports on the website activities and to provide other services connected with the website usage and the internet usage against the website operator. The IP address provided by your browser as part of Google Analytics will not be merged with other Google data. You can prevent cookies from being saved by setting your browser software accordingly; however, we would like to point out that in this case you may not be able to fully utilize all the functions of this website. In addition, you can prevent Google from collecting the data generated by the cookie and relating to your use of the website (including your IP address) and from processing this data by Google by downloading and installing the browser plug-in available at the following link (<https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en).>

You can also prevent Google Analytics from collecting data directly by clicking on the following link: Disable Google Analytics. An opt-out cookie is set that prevents future collection of your data when you visit this website.

For more information on terms of use and privacy with Google Analytics, please visit <https://www.google.com/analytics/terms/de.html> or <https://www.google.com/intl/de/analytics/privacyoverview.html.>

On this website, Google Analytics has been extended by the code `gat._anonymizeIp();` to ensure an anonymous capture of IP addresses (so-called IP masking).